
                          FpgaMMIX Computer

                         Phase 1: microcoded

                             Version 0.0

                    Copyright (C) 2006 Tommy Thorn

  This is the first hardware implementation of Professor Knuth's MMIX
  architecture. More than just the CPU core, this is a full computer
  with an assortment of peripherals.

  The present version is a micro-sequenced implementation which
  primary purpose is an experiment to verify my understanding of the
  architecture, a tool for learning, and a vehicle for building the
  infrastructure (notably software) for the higher performance version
  to follow.

  Performance specifically been a *non-goal* for this implementation,
  as long as it was sufficient fast for the purpose mentioned above
  and small enough to fit my development FPGA (Altera Cyclone
  EP1C20). For practical reasons FpgaMMIX, as of this writing, runs
  with a clock frequency of 25 MHz and takes at least 10 cycles per
  instruction.

  Performance goal for the pipelined implementation (FpgaMMIX v1) is
  one cycle execution for most instructions and a frequency in the
  range of 100 to 200 MHz on the same hardware, thus 40-80X faster.

CONFORMANCE

  Any deviation from the specification given by Knuth should be
  considered a bug (please report), unless explicitly stated. The TLB
  is likely to implement only a subset of the specification.

  The current implementation is fast approaching Milestone 1, that is
  full RTL implementation of the integer subset. DIV[U] and all
  floating point instructions will be emulated by the firmware. The
  extend of hardware floating point support is TBD, particularly
  depending on available logic resources. FpgaMMIX v1 is expected to
  get basic hardware support for floating point arithmetic.



ACKNOWLEDGMENT

  Big thanks to H. Peter Anvin for showing how to interface much of
  the peripherals on the Nios Development Kit, Cyclone Ed. as well as
  the Lancelot daughter card.


TASKS

- Porting to cheaper or more capable platforms.  
